This video is brought to you by Squarespace,
whether it's your new profession or just a lifelong passion,
start your journey to website glory with Squarespace,
check out their amazing all in one platform through the link in the description
below more unlimit bit
In thes of presidential,
there are certain names that come etched in gold, Abraham Lincoln,
George Washington,
Franklin D Roosevelt names that will forever be remembered as the pinnacles of
American leadership. But then you have the other end of the scale,
the names that aren't so much etched in precious metals as hastily scrolled in a
mixture of dog fixes and liquid shame names like James Buchana or Andrew Johnson
names like Warren G Harding, a business friendly, Playboy,
more interested in girls and booze than running the nation.
Harding has the distinction of presiding over the most corrupt white house in us
history. As the twenties roar is Ohio gang lines,
their pockets fleeing the nation and partook in the teapot scandal,
a swindle. So great.
It was declared the most D depend piece of thi known to ours,
but was there more to this party president than meets the eye?
Despite his abysmal reputation Harding died so beloved that its thought 9
million people lined as Coffin's route to pay their respects. Today,
we're investigating how the 29th president got his cricket reputation.
And if it's one he really deserves
When as a presidential candidate,
the wealthy Warren G Harding wanted to connect with common people.
It would be to his childhood. He turned again and again,
born shortly after the civil war ended on November.
The second 1865 Harding's early life was a rural fairy tale.
His parents were Ohio farmers turned country doctors,
and Harding's boyhood was spent swimming in creeks,
working with animals and playing in the local village bands educated in a one
room schoolhouse.
He knew everybody in his area and they knew him by his teenage years.
He was so tall and athletic. Everyone referred to him as Adonis in shorts.
It was an idyllic childhood.
One hit later play on to boost his popularity.
But had you told locals at the time that this easygoing Ohio lad would one day
be presidents that probably have laughed in your face?
That's because young wary Harding was almost singularly unambitious after
graduating from Ohio central college in 1882,
the future 29th president didn't go diving straight into politics.
No, instead did some teaching, tried his hand sales,
thought about getting into law and took some odd writing jobs.
It was only through sheer dumb lucks that he ever landed on a solid career.
In 1884, the four page weekly Marion star was on the brink of collapse.
Reasoning. It might be fun to run a newspaper Harding in two friends,
raised $300 and bought it out.
They then set about transforming it into one of the kindest papers in a high Oak
easygoing as a child Harding by now had grown into a man. So genie,
he probably would shampoo your.
If he thought it would make you like him under his watch,
the stars coverage became instinctively deferential to Republicans and Democrats
alike.
Harding refused to publish bad stories unless absolutely necessary and became
famous for never firing a single employee.
This made the star go down super well with the highs political elite and Harding
soon won himself some powerful friends,
but it would be thanks to one woman that the star really took off.
The Florence Mabel cling. The Wolf was divorced five years Harding, senior,
and with a son from a previous marriage,
she was also relatively wealthy and absolutely convinced the handsome well liked
Harding could be a great man. In fact, she was so sure of this,
that she pursued him relentlessly until Harding finally caved in 1891.
The pair married that year,
although it was touch and go convinced by a local rumor that Harding had hidden
black ancestry Florence's father threatened to shoot him.
If he touched her really though,
Harding's new father-in-law should have been less worried about his racial
grounds. And it's more about his champion.
Philandering Harding was firmly of the,
if it has a pulse sits worth a shot school of seduction and art,
he carried into his marriage without batting an eyelid as his own father
declared. If you were a girl, Warren, you'd be in the family way all the time.
You can't say no, but while dad was talking about Harding's horndog tendencies,
it was also a pretty good description of his soul friends, family, girls, wives,
rivals, no matter who it was asking things of him,
Harding was almost constitutionally incapable of saying no,
it was a tendency that would one day land him in a teapot full of very hot
water, but that would all come later. By the end of the 1890s,
Florence's money had turns the Mar star into hits and the gen Harding into a
respected businessman with strong connections to Ohio's Republican party.
There was only one logical next step to take.
It was time to get into politics.
If you ever needed living proof of the old dress for the job you want,
not for the job, you have look no further than Warren Harding,
despite his lack of leadership qualities,
Harding at an impressive knack for looking like someone who should be in charge
tall,
well dressed and with eyebrows that deserve their own biographics Harding was
the epitome of what voters thought a politician should look like.
So when fly pushed him into running for the Ohio centers in 1899,
the OCOM was almost inevitable in his two terms and brief stint.
As Lieutenant governor Harding managed to build a solid reputation in his home
state. He was good at making friends,
rarely made enemies and knew who to secret favors for and returned for
advancements. By the time he stepped down to return to the newspaper business,
Harding was a political force to be reckoned. Unfortunately,
all that good will would very nearly be sabotaged by his best friend. Jerry,
Jerry, you see is what Harding used to call his penis.
And by God,
did Harding have trouble controlling Jerry in 1905?
Jerry made the acquaintance of Carrie Phillips,
the wife of one of Harding's best friends.
While that friend was in a Sanitarium,
recovering from a brutal bout of depression, Harding, seduced Phillips,
thus beginning an affair that would last 15, long years,
all of which Harding recorded and cringy love letters with sentences like iHeart
with insatiated longing.
And until I feel that there will never be any relief until I take a long,
deep wild draft on your lips and then bury my face on your pillow
breasts. No to all our female viewers,
if your breasts start pillaring consulted doctor far as the affair was for
Jerry, it was also supremely foolish affairs can still sink political of
careers. Now back in Harding's era, they could have you metaphorically,
tar and feathered and run outta politics on the railroad Harding himself seems
to have recognized this in 1913,
he wrote to Philips strongly hinting that he might like to leave his wife and
marry her instead making their sex Capades legit.
The timing wasn't coincidental by now,
Harding was a rising dark had introduced William Howard Taft on stage after his
renomination in 1912, earning booze from the pro Roosevelt faction.
He was planning a run for the Senate.
So this was the perfect moment to neutralize a possible scandal by marrying
Phillips. Sadly,
the plan didn't exactly work out Phillips responded by saying that you'd rather
start seeing other men breaking Hardings heart,
but even if she had agreed to become his wife, it's unlikely,
Jerry would've gone along with it in 1914,
while in the middle of his Senate campaign Harding met a teenage girl named Nan
Britain who developed a crush on him.
It was the start of yet another multi-year affair.
One that would coincide with his rise.
The very top Harding one is Senate seat in 1914 with such a crushing margin.
The he immediately began being talked about as a future presidential candidate.
Again, this had little to do with his actual political skills during his time in
Congress,
Harding missed more than two thirds of all votes preferring playing poker and
making friends of the dull growing of law.
Making still rally voting meant rare making enemies come.
1916 Harding was chairman of the Republican national venture and making its
keynote speech. He seemed unstoppable. It was at this point,
the the time bomb had set himself years earlier,
finally exploded as Woodrow Wilson's presidency entered its second term.
Carrie Phillips wrote to Harding with a simple request.
Either he start paying her big money or she would tell the whole world about
what Jerry had been up to.
As dangerous as news of affair might be the Hardings career.
It was who it had the affair with that really threatened to take him down.
Carrie Phillips was a hardcore Mani file fully paid up Kaiser
fangirl. When war broke out in Europe in 14,
she became a vocal backer of the central powers using her influence,
try and get Harding to sign with Germany.
This was bad enough when the us was officially neutral,
but after Washington declared war on Berlin in April, 1917,
it made their affair as politically toxic as weapons,
grade plutonium terrified of the possible fallout from this political to noble
Harding arranged to pay Phillips $5,000 a year in harsh money.
When she demanded more,
he turned to the Republican national committee for help in exchange for silence.
Phillips was BU in another $20,000 and was given all expenses paid trip to Japan
in all,
its that keeping Harding's a fair secret cost around $300,000 in today's
money. That's just his affair with Phillips in 1919,
the now 20 something Nan Britain secretly gave birth to Harding's love Charles,
the Senate quickly arranged yet another round of monthly payments to cover up
Jerry's escapades. The two women finally paid off Harding.
Good at last turn his attention to what he wanted.
Most of all to run for presidents, actually that's not quite true.
More accurate rendering might be that Harding's friends desperately wanted him
to run for presidents while the gen Harding was simply happy to go along for the
ride.
The long shot bid was dreamed up by the rich a Harry Doherty who loved telling
anyone who'd listened.
That Harding would win because he looks like a P Doughty knew
that was more to it than that. The Republican field was crowded that year.
And so crowded that the convention would clearly have to nominate a compromise
candidate.
Dowty stroke of genius was to position Harding as the ultimate compromise,
a friendly Senator who knew all the party,
big wigs from poker games and hadn't made a political's life. It was a plan.
The, it would hand Harding the presidency at the 1920 Republican convention in
Chicago, the party deadlocked on the 10th ballot.
According to legend the go's elites,
then retired to a smoky backroom at the Blackstone hotel where they agreed to
make the in offensive hearting their man.
And that's how a one term Senator from Ohio landed at the top of the G P ticket
with Calvin cool, his running mate for Harding.
It was the best possible time to be leading his party's white house bit by now,
Roy Wilson was badly ill and his progressive agenda deeply unpopular. In fact,
the whole progressive era was starting to be perceived as a needless exhausting
expansion of government rather than put forward a vision for America.
All Harding had to do was say what his presidency wouldn't be like.
It wouldn't be anything like Wilson's under the slogan returned to normalcy
Harding,
campaigned for an ill defined cliche return to some non-existent golden pass
that even he couldn't articulate. Not that it mattered.
It turns out that Blands cliches was exactly what America wanted to hear on
election day Harding and cool crushed it at the outbox winning what was then the
biggest landslide since the unopposed election of 1820,
not only did Harding take 60% of the popular vote and sweep the electoral
college.
He even took Tennessee becoming the first Republican since reconstruction to win
a former Confederate state inaugurated on March the fourth 90 21,
Warren G Harding became presidents at the head of the Republican party that
commanded huge majorities in both chambers of Congress.
He could also reshape the country, however he saw fit yet.
It would soon transpire that reshaping America is exactly what Harding didn't
want to do. Even as he stood before the roaring crowds,
the new president knew in his bones that he wasn't up for the job.
I'm not hit for this office and should never have been here later.
Say in private,
not even Warren Harding could have realized just how right his withering
assessment would turn out to be.
Now we'll get back to presidential politics of days gone by in just a moment.
But first is a word from today's sponsor square space. You know,
great about the summer vacation,
time off a little bit of R and R it's the perfect time to spend lounging around
on the beach or in the park daydreaming about that next project that you want to
start. Fortunately, Squarespace gives you every possible tool.
You might want to make your dream into a reality, whether it's a small business,
a sports blogger, creative portfolio, or just a page of a memes,
it really doesn't matter. If you can dream it,
you can build it with Squarespace.
Are you looking to get in and out quick without thinking too much about what
your website should look like? Well,
bam is one of their quick and beautiful templates to make a website that's
fresh. And for you, or maybe you're more of a hands on buzzing,
lots of opinions and ideas about what exactly your site should look like. Well,
Squarespace gives you all the customization options you could ever want with no
updates, no patches, no technic or nonsense to worry about.
And once you're done setting up your website, tinkering with the design,
if you're so inclined or maybe playing with the colors,
there are so many extra features that Squarespace provides that your website can
thrive. Email campaigns, patronage portal, social integrations, member,
any areas, analytics, commercial options,
24 7 customers support it's everything you could ever want all in one place.
So when you're ready to get started on project of yours, big or small,
if involves a website, it's gotta be with Squarespace right now,
you can go to squarespace.com for a free tra when you're ready to launch your
new site, go to
squarespace.com/biographics to save 10% off your first purchase for a website or
a domain. And let's get back to Harding.
When most presidents enter the oval office,
they come carrying big plans for a visionary agenda, not Warren Harding.
The 29th president came to power with big plans to spend his time fishing
golfing and playing poker. As Harding himself once said,
I'm a man of limited talents. I don't think I'm big enough that the presidency,
those talents he did have mostly seemed to involve being sleazy while
president's Harding was notorious for sneaking NA Britain into the white house
and having sex with Aaron in a closet right next to the oval office.
He also liked to drink expensive liquor in a time when prohibition was the lore
of the land. Yet, despite all this, he wasn't entirely useless today.
There's a small, but growing number of history busts,
he'll tell you that Harding did some worthwhile in even great things during
his turn. So before we get into all the scandals,
let's take a quick look at the other side,
but the things the 29th president got, right,
perhaps the biggest of all was race relations at a time when the KU Klux Klan
was resurgence and race relations were less in the gut than drowning at the
bottom of a very deep well, Harding became an unlikely champion of Toler.
In October of 1921,
he stood before a racially segregated audience in Birmingham, Alabama,
and gave a blistering speech calling for economic quality between white and
black people. Whether you like it or not,
he funded unless our democracy is a lie. You must stand for that equality.
That same year,
he expended a ton of political capital supporting the D bill and ultimately
failed, but pioneering effort to make lynching a federal crime.
Yet it wasn't just on racial issues that Harding went hardcore for equality.
In his short time in office,
he commuted the sentences of 24 political prisoners locked up during world war.
I by Uson administration created the veterans bureau,
the 4runner of the department of veterans affairs and passed a short-lived bill
that funded new healthcare clinics for children and pregnant women.
That last one by the way, was responsible for a 9% drop in infant mortality.
In the years that it was active in stuff like this,
you can almost see the great president Warren Harding might have become for all
his faults for all his as deep down.
He really did seem to want nothing more than to make everyone happy. Sure.
That often took the form of letting friends push him around,
but it also meant a desire to support minorities,
former soldiers and poor mothers that went well beyond what the era expected of
him. It was Harding.
You helped to push the then mighty steel industry for an eight hour Workday
Harding.
That past laws that led to a ands budget unthinkable in the Wilson era had had
just had more energy.
Had he spent less time playing poker and more time using his office to force
through staff like the D bill.
It probably today be remembered as a champion of America's underdogs.
Sadly though, that energy was something Harding, simply lacked.
This was something he himself recognized, combat his own deficiency.
He brought in outside help to do all of the heavy lifting and as best this
policy resulted in guys like Charles G do and Herbert Hoover running their
departments like well old machines at his worst. Well,
things got seriously bad as we're about to see it was the outside help that
would soon suck Warren Harding's reputation into one of the biggest political,
a bars in history.
If you're into Googling long dead presidents and let's face it since you're
watching this video, you probably are.
You might have stumbled across this Harding quote before I have no trouble with
my enemies, I can take care of my enemies. All right. But my friends,
they're the ones who keep me walking the floor nights.
Those friends were a bunch of SL bags, Harding, mostly new from his Ohio days,
known to history as the Ohio gang, they were so corrupt.
They could have given the mob a run for its money.
One notorious member was Harry Doughty.
The businessman who helped Harding win the Republican nomination.
Now attorney general,
he developed a racket in to frauding the government misappropriating property
confiscated during world war I and selling it to liners own pockets on a whole
other level was the corruption of Charles R.
Forbes despite being part of the Ohio gang Forbes.
Wasn't actually from the Buckeye state. No, he was just a friend of Hardings.
A friend's Harding made director of his newly created veterans bureau only for,
for OB step, not just embezzle money, earmarked to veterans,
but also steal drugs and medicinal alcohol from hospitals and sell them on to
bootleggers and Forbes wasn't even the worst as a whole, a hire gang.
We responsible for theft, bribery, extortion, securities fraud,
witness tampering, black male, racketeering, perjury,
and many other crimes that are just too numerous to list their best.
They were like a black hole at the center of government devouring,
public funds at their worst.
They were actively involved in stuff like smuggling.
Craziest part Harding was aware of all of it. Now,
maybe he didn't know the specifics,
but he knew for sure that his little gang was up to no good. It was just,
he enjoyed their company too much.
He valued their friendship too much to even suggest that they try reigning in
their behavior. As his father had noted all those years ago,
Harding just couldn't say no to anyone.
Not even Albert full a paid up sticker fan for the oil industry.
Senator full was also a bribe taking machine.
It would be false actions more than those of any others that would soon her
Warren Harding's reputation into a dumpster.
And it would be all thanks to a little out crop of rock in Wyoming that
resembled a teapot back in 1909.
The Navy had requested certain oil as we put aside for possible emergency use
among these reserves was the Wyoming site known as teapot dome.
But while this was good planning on the Navy's part for the rich oilman,
it felt like a slap in the face.
Why were these reservoirs of black gold going untapped,
especially when they could make those who extracted them silly money.
It was a line of thinking Albert four was sympathetic to so sympathetic when
Harding made him secretary of the interior,
he orbit openly winked at the or Barrons and said,
watch this in 1921 for last Harding to put the reserves under his department.
The moment Harding had signed off on the idea.
Fall was drawing up secret agreements with oil industry,
CHS Harry Sinclair and Edward Doy in return for chance tot these sites,
Sinclair and Donny would merely have to fulfill minor obligations to the
government provided Albert fall and possibly Warren Harding were paid well,
nothing would stand between these caricature capitalists and SCRM
duck levels of wealth. It was the beginning of the teapot dome scandal,
a PR disaster that would soon become the greatest example of presidential
misconduct.
This side of Watergate was also the scandal that would turn Warren Harding's
name into mud.
The expose that would send teapot dome boiling over came barely a year into
Harding's presidency on April the 14th, 1920 to the wall street journal.
The news of the corrupt deal the very next day,
Wyoming Senator John Kendrick began a formal investigation by then.
The corruption was already outta control. For example,
there was the other all man Colonel James G Darden,
who decided he'd been stiffed of the chance to tap teapot.
Derman began drilling regardless this first Harding to send the Marines,
to stop Amon for Denver post reporters to document the entire incidents,
to buy their silence full arranged a million dollar bribe for the editors.
Then that was Albert for himself in return for teapot dome for was given a
hundred thousand dollars loan by the oil Barron Don to build himself a fancy
ranch dropped off in bags by Don SunEd while the other arm man Sinclair
arranged the cent $300,000 in Liberty bonds. Now,
perhaps the more pressing question is, was Harding in on the corruption.
The conventional view is that Harding was less corrupt than he was surrounded by
crooks still.
He certainly had an idea of what four was up to and may have even profited for
it.
In 1923 Harding's newspaper attracted a huge offer and a deal that may have been
a way of giving Harding his cut of the teapot shaped pie.
There was also the luxury expenses paid crews around the world.
Sinclair offered to the presidents despite this whatever note for sure if
Harding was in on it in the summer of 1923,
just as the teapot dome investigation was heating up Harding and dishonour arch
set off on a tour of the west and states at Alaska,
it was built as a chance for Harding to reconnect with voters,
but other things were clearly weigh on his mind on the boat to Alaska,
a troubled looking Harding, took his secretary of commerce,
her Hoover to one side and asked him if you knew of a great scandal in our
administration,
would you for the good of the country and the party expose it publicly?
Or would you bury it? Uber was all for telling the truth,
but Harding would never get the chance. As the Barty returned from Alaska,
the president came down with a mysterious illness thinking it was food
poisoning. Doctors rushed Harding to San Francisco that on the 2nd of August,
1923, he died of a suspected heart attack. While Florence was reading to him,
he was 57.
The death of warranty hearting hit the nation like an lytic asteroid with just
over half of his first term,
complete Harding was still in the honeymoon stage of his presidency.
When his body was returned to Washington on board, a slow moving train,
it's estimated over 9 million people lined the route to pay their respects.
It was an outpouring of grief,
shared moments of love for a president cruelly snatched before his time.
It was also just about the last time anywhere would ever feel anything but utter
contempt for Warren Harding,
shocked by the stories of Leighs emerging about his former boss, new president,
Calvin goig appointed two special prosecutors to look into teapot dome.
Although the investigation would drag on into Herbert who's presidency,
it eventually uncovered a scandal. So great.
It annihilated Harding's reputation in 1929.
Now before wound becoming the first former cabinet secretary to be jailed for a
crime committed while in office Ohio gang member, Charles R.
Forbes was likewise convicted of defrauding.
The government while Harry Dowty was forced to leave Washington in disgrace,
even the crooked Orman fed badly Bernie's son had died in a murder suicide link
to teapot dome while the reserves were taken back under federal control,
it wasn't until two and 15 that the site was at last sold for drilling this time
in a legal manner.
But what of Warren G Harding himself at the moment he died most would've
probably expected Harding to go down as a mid rank president,
someone who was popular, but didn't live long enough to get much done today,
though, with everything we know about teapot dome,
the Ohio gang and love affairs and SLS,
you'd be hard pressed to find anyone who'd put Harding's presidency anywhere,
but the very bottom, in some ways,
perhaps this is unfair rule is faults Harding.
Didn't send the nation spiraling towards civil war or get impeached,
or even have the misfortune like Herbert Hoover to preside over an economic
crisis.
He simply lacked the vision to get anything done while also relying too much on
friends who are willing to take advantage.
It said that the presidency brings out the true character of a man that it shows
people for, who they really are in Warren Harding's case.
It simply showed the world how deeply ocre was,
how far had been promoted above his talents, perhaps in the ends.
The one thing Harding should have said no to was the presidency itself.
So I really hope you found that video. Interesting. If you did,
please do hit that thumbs up bottom below. Don't forget to subscribe also.
Please do check it a fantastic sponsor for this episode Squarespace link to
below. And thank you for watch